# Week two journal
- most of my failures this week seemed to be human errors, like when I didn't have the correct working directory in my terminal
- but, after encountering those problems I paid more attention to where I was entering my commands and used those early mistakes to troubleshoot other errors

## Reflection
After reading the articles for this week, I now have a deeper appreciation for the professional work that goes into creating transcriptions to be put online. I am a volunteer transcriber for the Multicultural History Society of Ontario, so I understand why people are motivated to volunteer and the work that goes into it. I thought that the readings were interesting because while they were written by the researchers to understand the process of being a volunteer in crowdsourced projects, I felt like I was learning about the work that the full-time employees put in to make volunteering as easy as possible. I also have a newfound appreciation for how many projects the employees have to moderate.

After reading the articles, I now also realize how important it is to keep in mind the source of the funding for there crowdsourced transcription projects. For Transcribe Bentham, the work was paid for by grants. This limited how long they could run the project for and how many people they could hire to work on it. I found myself wondering how much they could have accomplished if the project had gone on for longer. But, as stated in the article, *Transcription maximized; expense minimized? Crowdsourcing and editing The Collected Works of Jeremy Bentham*, the successes of the Transcription Desk is promising for future crowdsourced transcription projects because they will no longer have to spend as many resources on developing their own transcription system. I also think that these projects are contributing to the "democratization" of digital history that we talked about last week. The increased ease of access to digital tools might make it easier for other kinds of materials to be put online. I wonder if projects that may have less access to funding can use these technologies to share their materials in the future? Maybe projects can use resources like grant funding in other places. But, the nature of crowdsourced digital history projects is that the subject matter has to be relevant to people so that the project can get volunteers. This might make certain projects harder to execute, depending on the amount of interest and publicity it has. 

The exercises for this week challenged me more than I thought they would, but I think I learn a lot through making mistakes and looking for answers myself. I think that using wget and APIs will be really helpful for doing research in the future. Web resources that Carleton makes available can usually be saved in a file format that your computer can read (usually pdf, jpeg, etc.). But, as far as I know, if you want to save materials from the Carleton library, you have to click on each individual article or image to save it. Using the tools I learned this week, I can now do that in a much faster way. I can also use OCR to find as many relevant sources as I can.
